# Zillow-Price-Prediction-Big-Data-Application-in-AWS
Abstract

The surge in demand  for  the US housing market and shortage of inventory has made it difficult for people to find their dream home with all the features they desire with ease. Hybrid work culture because of the pandemic is fuelling the demand in the housing market. There are various parameters that are impacting the property values such as school proximity, migration of people impacting the population density, crime rate, job opportunities, new constructions, recreational centers (restaurants, malls, etc), medical care facilities, access to public transportation, and others. In this project, we plan to analyze Redfin real estate price listings and show how the housing market trends have been over the years in the US. We also plan to bring out the idea of how house/property values are influenced by school districts and how migration has affected the house prices. We are redefining the real estate market by predicting the house rates based on the customer’s preference to fulfill their desire to buy their dream house. Big data has enabled the handling of large scale data involving millions of records seamlessly for an application like Redfin. AWS has served as a market leader because of its improved scalability, reliability, security, etc. over its competitors.  We will leverage big data application by using AWS cloud services to analyze and predict Redfin house listings / property records  according to the customer's preferences.

	Keywords: Big Data Application, AWS S3, AWS EMR, US Housing Market, House price prediction
